# Near-Field-Propagation-Simulator
"X" is an open source 2D simulator for modeling the electromagnetic wave near field propagation of large transmitter antennas (specially in THz and sub-THz frequencies) in precense of arbitrary blockages and reflectors in the environment.Terahertz (THz) communications are envisioned to be a key technology in 6G and beyond wireless systems, enabling the demanding high data rates (100 Gbs) and large bandwidths. The large array aperture and high carrier frequencies in the THz band result in a large Rayleigh distance (over 10 meters), which positions most communication applications in the near-field region of the transmitter (Tx) antennas, where the traditional plane-wave assumption is no longer valid. Moreover, the severe propagation loss and blockage issues inherent in the THz band present significant challenges, hindering the system's ability to utilize the available bandwidth effectively. One of the fundamental tools to alleviate these problems and facilitate network optimization and planning is coverage mapping through received power prediction in different locations. However, traditional models developed based on far-field assumptions would fail to capture the near-field characteristics accurately, and running computationally intensive EM simulations on the base stations is not feasible, making effective power prediction extremely challenging for these systems. In this simulator, we provide an accurate and efficient modeling of near field propagation of TX antennas configured with arbitrary phase configurations and locations in interactions with arbitrary number of reflectors/blockages with different environmental properties. In this simulator we provide options to generate interesting and special wavefronts introduced in near field like Airy beam, Bessel beam, etc. or input user-defined phase configurations for TX antenna elements. Furthermore, "X" supports Reconfigurable Inteligent Surfaces (RIS) and rough scattering to model the near field propagation. Ultimately, one can define the multiple RX properties as in a multiple UEs scenario to get the calculated power at each RX location on top of the coverage map. We have developed this simulator based on physical principles of Rayleigh-Sommerfeld Integral Theory and Angular Spectrum Method and evaluate its performance by comparing the results generated from this simulator with an comprehensive EM simulator namely as "Feko". The main purpose of this simulator is to provide an user-friendly interface to study the near field propagation model of large TX antenna arrays which are envioned to be the key technology in next generations of communication systems and more importantly provide an infrastructure to generate significant amount of data for AI-enabled solutions. 
